nrf_modem/doc/architecture.rst, before:

.. _architecture:

Library architecture
####################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Modem library is the application interface to the nRF9160 modem firmware, which contains a full IP and DTLS/TLS stack as well as GNSS.
It provides the standard Socket APIs, to facilitate application development and additional APIs to manage the modem and perform full-modem firmware updates.

The library implements a communication interface between the Application and Modem cores on the nRF9160 through the RPC protocol, using the Inter Processor Communication (IPC) peripheral and a shared region of RAM.

The following figure shows a simplified Modem library architecture:

.. figure:: images/nrf_modem_architecture.svg
   :alt: Modem library architecture diagram

   Modem library architecture diagram

Shared memory configuration
***************************

The Modem library implements a communication interface between the application core and the modem core by using a shared memory area to exchange data.
The shared memory area can be located anywhere within the first 128 kilobytes of RAM (lowest addresses).

In bootloader mode, see :ref:`nrf_modem_bootloader`, the shared memory must be one continous partition with size ``NRF_MODEM_SHMEM_BOOTLOADER_SIZE``.
The application can configure the location of this region within the first 128 kilobytes of RAM.
The application is responsible for reserving the memory area before passing it onto the library.
The library accepts the memory configuration as parameters to the :c:func:`nrf_modem_bootloader_init` function through the :c:struct:`nrf_modem_bootloader_init_params`.

In normal operating mode the shared memory is logically divided into the following four regions:

* Control
* TX
* RX
* Trace

The application can configure the size and location of these regions.
The application is responsible for reserving the memory areas before passing them onto the library.
The library accepts the memory areas as parameters to the :c:func:`nrf_modem_init` function through the :c:struct:`nrf_modem_shmem_cfg` struct in :c:struct:`nrf_modem_init_params`.

.. note::
   The size of the Control area is fixed.

The application can adjust the size of these regions based on the needs to minimize the RAM requirements of the library.

For |NCS| users, the Partition Manager will automatically reserve some RAM for each region during linking, according to the size of each region as specified in the glue.

Control area
============

The control area contains the data structures that are used to setup the communication between the modem core and the application core.
Among the sizes of the memory regions, only the size of the control area is fixed, and it is exported in the :file:`nrf_modem_platform.h` file.

For |NCS| users, the build system and the glue implementation will automatically take care of passing the correct size to the :c:func:`nrf_modem_init` call.

TX area
=======

The TX area contains the data payload of messages that are sent to the modem.
The size of this area affects the largest buffer that :c:func:`nrf_send` can send in a single call, and the size of the longest AT command that can be sent to the modem.
When provisioning the TLS certificates, the size of the TX area must be large enough to accommodate the TLS certificate and the AT command that is used for provisioning.
The library OS abstraction layer defines the following functions to allocate and free data in this memory region:

* :c:func:`nrf_modem_os_shm_tx_alloc`
* :c:func:`nrf_modem_os_shm_tx_free`

RX area
=======

The RX area is entirely managed by the modem and this area contains all the incoming data from the modem.
The incoming data includes GNSS data, AT command responses, and IP traffic.
The size of this area determines the maximum amount of incoming data from the modem that the application core can buffer.
If the area is full and the application has not read the data yet, new data cannot be buffered in this area.

An example of an operation that requires a large RX area is the reading of a TLS certificate associated with a security tag.
The size of the RX area must be as large as the size of the TLS certificate that is being read, and the AT command that is used to read the certificate.

Trace area
==========

The trace area contains the trace output from the modem core.
This area of memory is optional, and the area size can be configured to be zero, to disable the trace output.

Library heap
************

The Modem library dynamically allocates memory during some operations, for example tracing and DNS lookups.
This memory is never shared with the modem core and hence, it can be located anywhere in the application core's RAM instead of the shared memory regions.
The library OS abstraction layer defines the following functions to allocate and free up dynamic memory for the library:

* :c:func:`nrf_modem_os_alloc`
* :c:func:`nrf_modem_os_free`

Commit message:

doc: nrf_modem: Add note about the Modem lib SHMEM TX size
Add a note about the Modem library shared memory TX size, explaining
that it must be possible for the application to allocate up to the
number of bytes given for the TX region in the init parameters.

Signed-off-by: Eivind Jølsgard <eivind.jolsgard@nordicsemi.no>

nrf_modem/doc/architecture.rst, after:

.. _architecture:

Library architecture
####################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Modem library is the application interface to the nRF9160 modem firmware, which contains a full IP and DTLS/TLS stack as well as GNSS.
It provides the standard Socket APIs, to facilitate application development and additional APIs to manage the modem and perform full-modem firmware updates.

The library implements a communication interface between the Application and Modem cores on the nRF9160 through the RPC protocol, using the Inter Processor Communication (IPC) peripheral and a shared region of RAM.

The following figure shows a simplified Modem library architecture:

.. figure:: images/nrf_modem_architecture.svg
   :alt: Modem library architecture diagram

   Modem library architecture diagram

Shared memory configuration
***************************

The Modem library implements a communication interface between the application core and the modem core by using a shared memory area to exchange data.
The shared memory area can be located anywhere within the first 128 kilobytes of RAM (lowest addresses).

In bootloader mode, see :ref:`nrf_modem_bootloader`, the shared memory must be one continous partition with size ``NRF_MODEM_SHMEM_BOOTLOADER_SIZE``.
The application can configure the location of this region within the first 128 kilobytes of RAM.
The application is responsible for reserving the memory area before passing it onto the library.
The library accepts the memory configuration as parameters to the :c:func:`nrf_modem_bootloader_init` function through the :c:struct:`nrf_modem_bootloader_init_params`.

In normal operating mode the shared memory is logically divided into the following four regions:

* Control
* TX
* RX
* Trace

The application can configure the size and location of these regions.
The application is responsible for reserving the memory areas before passing them onto the library.
The library accepts the memory areas as parameters to the :c:func:`nrf_modem_init` function through the :c:struct:`nrf_modem_shmem_cfg` struct in :c:struct:`nrf_modem_init_params`.

.. note::
   The size of the Control area is fixed.

.. note::
   The regions base addresses must be word aligned in memory.

The application can adjust the size of these regions based on the needs to minimize the RAM requirements of the library.

For |NCS| users, the Partition Manager will automatically reserve some RAM for each region during linking, according to the size of each region as specified in the glue.

Control area
============

The control area contains the data structures that are used to setup the communication between the modem core and the application core.
Among the sizes of the memory regions, only the size of the control area is fixed, and it is exported in the :file:`nrf_modem_platform.h` file.

For |NCS| users, the build system and the glue implementation will automatically take care of passing the correct size to the :c:func:`nrf_modem_init` call.

TX area
=======

The TX area contains the data payload of messages that are sent to the modem.
The size of this area affects the largest buffer that :c:func:`nrf_send` can send in a single call, and the size of the longest AT command that can be sent to the modem.
When provisioning the TLS certificates, the size of the TX area must be large enough to accommodate the TLS certificate and the AT command that is used for provisioning.
The library OS abstraction layer defines the following functions to allocate and free data in this memory region:

* :c:func:`nrf_modem_os_shm_tx_alloc`
* :c:func:`nrf_modem_os_shm_tx_free`

.. note::
   It must be possible for the Modem library to allocate up to the number of bytes passed by the TX region size in the :c:struct:`nrf_modem_init_params` struct.
   If the OS implementation of :c:func:`nrf_modem_os_shm_tx_alloc` require any overhead, additional memory must be set aside by the application.

RX area
=======

The RX area is entirely managed by the modem and this area contains all the incoming data from the modem.
The incoming data includes GNSS data, AT command responses, and IP traffic.
The size of this area determines the maximum amount of incoming data from the modem that the application core can buffer.
If the area is full and the application has not read the data yet, new data cannot be buffered in this area.

An example of an operation that requires a large RX area is the reading of a TLS certificate associated with a security tag.
The size of the RX area must be as large as the size of the TLS certificate that is being read, and the AT command that is used to read the certificate.

Trace area
==========

The trace area contains the trace output from the modem core.
This area of memory is optional, and the area size can be configured to be zero, to disable the trace output.

Library heap
************

The Modem library dynamically allocates memory during some operations, for example tracing and DNS lookups.
This memory is never shared with the modem core and hence, it can be located anywhere in the application core's RAM instead of the shared memory regions.
The library OS abstraction layer defines the following functions to allocate and free up dynamic memory for the library:

* :c:func:`nrf_modem_os_alloc`
* :c:func:`nrf_modem_os_free`
